Now that we have all of the HTML in place,
let's turn to our CSS and
we're gonna start with laying this out
with our mobile dimension of the website.
So one of the things that I'm struck by
here as I started to work on this system
immediately is the following.
I have this mixed media and
Anni Roenkae listed right after that.
And if you notice, there's a big gap in
between them and they kinda look similar,
their font is slightly smaller.
But if we map this to a trend that we
see right now in the design industry,
often that the little text on the top
that mixed media will be displayed
at a smaller font and
it will be all in uppercase, and
then after that we'll have Anni Roenkae
which will be in larger letters.
So let's fix our styling here so
it looks closer to that.
So we're gonna start
here with artists h4 and
the way we can style
this is pretty simple,
we'll just say, text,
transform, uppercase.
And then we'll say our
font weight is normal and
then finally our font
size will be 0.8 rem and
that will get us to a tiny
uppercase font that is not bolded.
Remember, of course, it's bold by default,
all the headings are coming
from your browser stylesheet.
The gap in between mixed media in
Anni Roenkae is caused by margin,
that margin happens both on the h4 and
on the h3.
All of the headings have some
default margin associated with it.
Be aware that when two margins
intersect inside of your style-sheet,
they don't add together, they actually
collapse into a single margin.
This is a really important feature if
you think about paragraphs, a series of
paragraphs, we don't wanna have a giant
double space in between paragraphs,
we wanna have the same type
of spacing in between them.
So as to margins meet they do collapse.
So here on my h4,
if I set the margin to zero,
we won't see anything collapse here at
all, it will look exactly the same but
stuff has happened,
we've actually turned off the margin.
The top margin here is coming now from
the bottom of the h2, the margin that's
underneath of the text for mixed media
is coming from the top of the h3.
So let's set that up as follows,
artists age three,
we're gonna say margin top of 0.3 Ems.
We could set that to zero if you wanted,
if you just set it to a straight zero,
it looks a little bit tight.
So I've set it to 0.3 Ems,
which gives us a little bit of
breathing room between those.
That's an art decision and
you can change that however you like.
Now that we've got that in place, let's
focus on styling the cards themselves and
the content inside of those cards.
So we make the visual side of
this a little bit smaller.
Just for fun, we could start with flexbox.
So, we'll work with the article
wrap portion of our HTML.
Remember that is the div that wraps
around all of the articles that
we're working with here, so
we'll set that up, article wrap.
And we'll say Display.
Flex, we'll say flex flow because,
of course, by default Flexbox
will very helpfully set that all up as
a series of columns inside of a row.
That's not what we wanted
a mobile dimension.
So we'll say our flex flow
is a column wrap, and
then the gap will be one rim in
between each one of those columns.
So that's just sets everything up
going here horizontally down the page.
[SOUND] so far, so good.
But wouldn't it be more interesting
if we made this a little bit better?
Part of the problem with having these
giant images is that it makes the page
very long for scrolling here on mobile.
So wouldn't it be more fun if we had
a smaller image with the text next to it?
That would be kind of cool looking and
it wouldn't be all that hard
to do when we leverage grid.
So we have a basic layout here for
our mobile layout.
We have exactly what you would
expect at a mobile dimension.
We have our HTML and
our images all stacked on top
of each other really nicely.
The images look great, they're nice and
big, they're easy to see but
it does make for
a long scrolling web page.
Wouldn't it be nice if instead we had
a two column layout on mobile and
we could have an image taking
up one of those columns and
next to it we could have all of the text.
That may not look possible
with what we have here but
thanks to grid this becomes a really
easy layout to do, so let's set that up.
So now the articles will wind
up being our containers for
all of the elements inside of it.
So if we just take a quick peek
inside of one of our articles here,
you see that we have an h4, an h5,
an image, and two paragraphs.
That winds up being five elements
that are children of the article.
So, in our layout here, as we plan it,
we'll set this up as our article wrap,
article,
and then we're going to
tell it to display as grid.
And we're going to give it two columns,
grid template columns of 1fr 1fr and
then five rows, grid template rows,
repeat parentheses five comma auto.
So what will happen here is that
by default grid is going to assign
each element inside of
the card its own row.
So there we go, we have one element here
each inside of this card, and we've called
for two columns, so what grid has done is
it put the the heading in one, the image
in the other, the text in the other and
the visit the website and the other.
So we're just sort of alternating
as we go on down the page here.
We need to clean that up
a little bit as well.
So let's add to this more styles,
article rap, article star.
Remember, star is the universal selector,
so we're saying that for
all of the elements inside of an article,
inside of our class of article wrap,
do the following.
We're going to say, we wanna put
everything in grid, column 2/3.
So we're gonna put everything over in
the second column, see how the page jumps,
everything goes over to the second column,
which is great.
And I'm also gonna turn off the margin
on the top, margin top of zero,
that way things will tighten up in their
spacing a little bit which you'll see why
here in just a moment, then we'll make
an exception to this rule for our images.
So for article wrap, image,
that article image,
then we're going to say,
we want a grid column of 1/2.
So we want the images over on the left
hand side, so there it is, and
it's going to put it in the row
that most closely matches to just
the regular flow of the HTML.
So it sort of looks like it's in
the middle and the spacing is all wonky.
The way we fix that is by saying,
then our grid row will be 1/6.
And what that will do,
is have her image span over all six or
all five of our rows and the content here,
now will snap up together and
compact itself very,
very nicely on the right hand side,
which is totally awesome and amazing.
We probably need a little bit more gap
here in between our article wraps and
our columns, so let's add that, it's
looking a little bit crowded over there.
So I'm gonna say a gap here in my article
wrap article of zero and then one rim.
And that'll put some space there
in between our image and the text.
So that's pretty cool.
That gives us the image next to the text.
The HTML order is what it is and we have a
lovely layout here for mobile dimensions.
It starts to get a little
bit big as we get larger, so
let's deal with that by writing
some more media queries.
So here at media with
a min width of 650 pixels.
And our article wrap,
We're gonna say once again display grid.
This overrides the earlier
declaration we had for
flexes and flexbox, now we're going
to tell it to display as grid and
then we can say our grid template
columns are repeat 2 comma and
then of course we can use
our friend min-max, min-max.
10 pixels comma 1fr.
So if you're not familiar with min-max,
this is something you can
include inside of CSS grid.
This is designed to make sure
that your grid cell are good and
they don't get too entirely small.
It is possible that your
grid cells shrink down so
small that that they just look terrible.
So this is a technique that Chris has
described it on his CSS [INAUDIBLE]
website, so this is something that you
can incorporate anywhere along the way,
I haven't done so
in the grid course to this point,
mostly because I wanted to get
familiar with the notation.
This is something else you can add on as
a layer of security to make sure your
cells don't get too small.
So if we widen this page, now we're
gonna wind up with two columns and
you'll see here that we have a very
lovely layout here at tablet dimensions.
But we can now do one additional level of
craziness here when we get to desktop and
completely change the look
of this site again.
So here, so
we'll say @ media and min width,
you probably wanna say something
like 1000 pixels on your end.
I'm gonna say something like 800 pixels
here because I have a smaller screen and
limited size that I'm working with.
And so here, let's change up our
display again with article wrap and
am going to say my grid
template column are gonna
be repeat four comma and then mini-max.
Inside of these ten pixels comma 1fr, so
now I'm telling grid to set us
up with four columns instead.
So that's the way it looks right now.
Those pictures are a little bit small.
So let's clean that up a little bit.
When we go to our article wrap article,
Now
we'll say our grid template columns, so
remember, this is inside of the article.
Previously, we've had two columns one
with the image one with everything else.
Now I'm gonna change that to simply
one column, 1fr, that's all I want.
You can do a min-max on that
too if you want, min-max.
Maybe it's a minimum of 100 pixels
comma 1fr, something like that.
It doesn't always have to be 10 pixels, it
could also be Ems or Rems or percents or
viewport widths or whatever makes sense.
I just happen to be using pixels here.
Okay, then we need to
specify our rows again.
So our grid template rows,
repeat: 5, auto, whoops.
Comma auto.
So that's how that's looking.
And we can set up our gap with that.
01 m And then,
now the last part of this is to
rearrange what we have here and
get the image back into
the same location as our text.
So we can set that up as follows.
We'll say our article wrap Article star,
in other words, for all of the elements,
we want them to occupy
our grid column of 1/2.
Okay, make sure that they
all occupy the same column.
That's a good start.
And then for the image itself, if you like
it this way with the image at the top,
you can absolutely do that or
you could rearrange this, article
Article image.
Here we might say something like,
our grid column is definitely still 1/2.
Our grid row though, if you want it
to go back to its original location
in the source code, so
after the headings we would just say,
auto, and that will move the image
to where it would normally occur
in the source order right after
the headings as we had it before.
And we could also be give that a bit
of margin on the bottom of one rem.
So we give it a little bit
of spacing here on the page.
So now we have a wild and
crazy layout here where we've got four
columns with headings on the top and
images in the middle here at the desktop,
when we go to our tablet dimension,
we wind up with two main columns each of
which with two sort of separate columns,
the image on the side,
the text next to that.
And then when you narrow this up even
further, we have two nice columns with
the text on one side and the image on the
other, so image is always big and visible.
Very important when you're
talking about artists.
If he wanted to take this to the next
level, you could do something interesting
like giving background colors here on
some of the cells, maybe not all of them.
You could do some styling with
the link to the visit the websites,
maybe those turn into some kind of button.
You could definitely do fun
things here with the fonts.
We worked with a single Arial font here,
it's pretty vanilla looking.
So if you added some more
interesting contrasting fonts,
you could wind up making this
look more interesting as well.
You could add some border radius or
a border on the image itself
to jazz that up a bit.
There's all kinds of things you can do
with cards to take the layout that I've
just given you here to the next level and
make a really exciting looking web page.